
BUILD INSTRUCTIONS

The labs introduce and use discrete-event simulation to characterize various
computer network scenarios. Code written in the C programming language is
provided and is modified to perform various experiments.

The provided simulation code should be runable using virtually any C/C++
compiler. Some care is needed when compiling the code and importing it into
various development systems. Here are some guidelines.

First, download and unzip the provided files into a code directory. Then,
depending on your OS, use the following instructions.

1. WINDOWS

Microsoft offers Visual Studio 2022 (with C++) for free at https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/features/cplusplus/. Download the Community 2022 version.

During installation, Install the componenets shown in the image VS_Installed_Components.jpg.

You can create a project as follows:as follows.  

- Create a new "Project From Existing Code", i.e., File > New > Project From
  Existing Code ...

- Use "Visual C++" as the type of project you would like to create. Click Next.

- Pick a Project file location and Project name. Then "Add files to the project
  from these folders", pointing it to the unzipped code directory. Click Next
  and make sure that you select the Project type to be "Console application
  project". Then click Finish.

- Click on the Solution Explorer tab to navigate through the source and header
  files. You should be able to build the executable from the dropdown menus.

- Once you build the executable, you can run it from inside Visual C++ Express
  or you can run it directly from a console window.

- You can also do the compiling/linking/running by starting the "Visual Studio
  Command Prompt", i.e., Tools > Visual Studio Command Prompt. Then use the
  cl.exe compiler, i.e., inside the command window, navigate to your unzipped
  code directory and "cl.exe *.c" will build an executable (It will have a .exe
  extension). Then run it from the command window.

2. macOS (Mac)

If you have a Mac, you may want to use the Xcode integrated development
environment, which is available free with OS X. You will have to install it
from the App Store. The command line compiler tools are also part of
Xcode. 

3. macOS (Mac) or Linux

If you are using Linux or a Mac, you can build in a terminal window, i.e., on
the Mac, open Utilities > Terminal window. Then on a Mac or Linux, cd to your
code directory and use "cc *.c -Wall -lm". Then run the executable file, i.e.,
type ./a.out. Alternately, you can use the provided Makefile. It is located in
the "makefiles" subdirectory. Copy it to the code directory and type "make
clean; make" in the code directory. You can then run the executable by typing
"./run". Another Linux alternative is to use cmake. In this option, copy
"CMakeLists.txt" from the makefiles directory to the code directory, then type
"cmake ." followed by "make". This should produce the "run" executable.

Let me know if you experience any problems compiling or running the code.

